http://www.csounds.com/manual/html/f.html
f Statement (or Function Table Statement)
>> f p1  p2  p3  p4  p5 ... PMAX
p1 -- Table number by which the stored function will be known. A negative number requests that the table be destroyed.
p2 -- Action time of function generation (or destruction) in beats.
p3 -- Size of function table (i.e. number of points) Must be a power of 2, or a power-of-2 plus 1 if this number is positive. Maximum table size is 16777216 (224) points.
p4 -- Number of the GEN routine to be called (see GEN ROUTINES). A negative value will cause rescaling to be omitted.
p5 ... PMAX -- Parameters whose meaning is determined by the particular GEN routine. 

http://www.csounds.com/manual/html/ScoreGenRef.html
GEN Routines

GEN routines are used as data generators for function tables. When a function table is created using the f score statement the GEN function is given as its fourth argument. A negative GEN number implies that the function is not rescaled, and maintains its original values.
Sine/Cosine Generators:

    GEN09 - Composite waveforms made up of weighted sums of simple sinusoids.
    GEN10 - Composite waveforms made up of weighted sums of simple sinusoids.
http://www.csounds.com/manual/html/GEN10.html
f # time size 10 str1 str2 str3 str4 ...
size -- number of points in the table. Must be a power of 2 or power-of-2 plus 1 (see f statement).
str1, str2, str3, etc. -- relative strengths of the fixed harmonic partial numbers 1,2,3, etc., beginning in p5. Partials not required should be given a strength of zero.
    GEN11 - Additive set of cosine partials.
    GEN19 - Composite waveforms made up of weighted sums of simple sinusoids.
    GEN30 - Generates harmonic partials by analyzing an existing table.
    GEN33 - Generate composite waveforms by mixing simple sinusoids.
    GEN34 - Generate composite waveforms by mixing simple sinusoids.

Line/Exponential Segment Generators:

    GEN05 - Constructs functions from segments of exponential curves.
    GEN06 - Generates a function comprised of segments of cubic polynomials.
    GEN07 - Constructs functions from segments of straight lines.
    GEN08 - Generate a piecewise cubic spline curve.
    GEN16 - Creates a table from a starting value to an ending value.
    GEN25 - Construct functions from segments of exponential curves in breakpoint fashion.
    GEN27 - Construct functions from segments of straight lines in breakpoint fashion.

File Access GEN Routines:

    GEN01 - Transfers data from a soundfile into a function table.
    GEN23 - Reads numeric values from a text file.
    GEN28 - Reads a text file which contains a time-tagged trajectory.
    GEN49 - Transfers data from an MP3 soundfile into a function table.

Numeric Value Access GEN Routines

    GEN02 - Transfers data from immediate pfields into a function table.
    GEN17 - Creates a step function from given x-y pairs.
    GEN52 - Creates an interleaved multichannel table from the specified source tables, in the format expected by the ftconv opcode.

Window Function GEN Routines

    GEN20 - Generates functions of different windows.

Random Function GEN Routines

    GEN21 - Generates tables of different random distributions.
    GEN40 - Generates a random distribution using a distribution histogram.
    GEN41 - Generates a random list of numerical pairs.
    GEN42 - Generates a random distribution of discrete ranges of values.
    GEN43 - Loads a PVOCEX file containing a PV analysis.

Waveshaping GEN Routines

    GEN03 - Generates a stored function table by evaluating a polynomial.
    GEN13 - Stores a polynomial whose coefficients derive from the Chebyshev polynomials of the first kind.
    GEN14 - Stores a polynomial whose coefficients derive from Chebyshevs of the second kind.
    GEN15 - Creates two tables of stored polynomial functions.

Amplitude Scaling GEN Routines

    GEN04 - Generates a normalizing function.
    GEN12 - Generates the log of a modified Bessel function of the second kind.
    GEN24 - Reads numeric values from another allocated function-table and rescales them.

Mixing GEN Routines

    GEN18 - Writes composite waveforms made up of pre-existing waveforms.
    GEN31 - Mixes any waveform specified in an existing table.
    GEN32 - Mixes any waveform, resampled with either FFT or linear interpolation.

Pitch and Tuning GEN Routines

    GEN51 - fills a table with a fully customized micro-tuning scale, in the manner of Csound opcodes cpstun, cpstuni and cpstmid.

Named GEN Routines

Csound's GEN routines can be extended with GEN function plugins. There is currently a simple GEN plugin that provides exponential and hyperbolic tangent functions, and the sone function. There is also a generator called farey for the Farey sequence operations. These GEN functions are not called by number, but by name.

    "tanh" - fills a table from a hyperbolic tangent formula.
    "exp" - fills a table from an exponential formula.
    "sone" - fills a table from a sone function formula.
    "farey" - fills a table from a Farey sequence.
    "wave" - fills a table from a wavelet transform.





http://www.eumus.edu.uy/eme/ensenanza/electivas/csound/materiales/book_chapters/02nelson/02nelson.html